---
layout: post
title:  "Packages"
smallDescription: "Agenda corp1."
imgSrc: "assets/frontend/pages/img/works/img1.jpg"
date:   2014-11-22 23:08:05
categories: introduction
group: "contributing"
---
<p>There are two options for you To contribute packages to Rock:</p>

<ul>
  <li>make your package a part of Rock ‘proper’, i.e. of the Rock package set</li>
  <li>create <a href="../autoproj/advanced/creating_pkg_set.html">your own package set</a></li>
</ul>

<p>This page will describe the process for both options.</p>

<h2 id="add-your-package-to-rock">Add your package to Rock</h2>

<p>As a side note, it is important that you realize that your library can be
integrated <em>without any changes</em> to Rock. The Rock build system is designed for
that, as long as it follows widely-accepted standards (see for instance
the “Build System Behaviour” section of the <a href="http://rock.opendfki.de/wiki/WikiStart/Standards/RG4">corresponding Rock
guidelines</a>. Even the
manifest.xml file, which is used to describe the package, <a href="../autoproj/advanced/manifest.xml#package_set">can be provided as
part of the package set</a> instead
of as part of the package itself.</p>

<p>The process to get a package in Rock is:</p>

<ul>
  <li>locally modify the rock package set (in autoproj/remotes/rock) to define your
package. The package should go in the libs.autobuild file if it is a library
and in the orogen.autobuild file if it is an oroGen package.</li>
  <li>commit these changes</li>
  <li><a href="gitorious.html">send these changes to the Rock developers</a>. Make sure that
the purpose of the package(s) is clear.</li>
  <li>at this point, there is the option of putting the source code within Rock’s
gitorious projects. While it is not mandatory, it is the preferred option.
The Rock developers will be in touch with you to discuss this (either through
the <a href="http://www.dfki.de/mailman/cgi-bin/listinfo/rock-users">rock-users mailing list</a> or through the merge request / ticket you created)</li>
</ul>

<h2 id="publish-your-package-set-in-rock">Publish your package set in Rock</h2>

<p>If you have integrated more than one package, and want to keep control over
these packages (i.e. want them to appear to be a separate contribution from your
company / research institute), there is the possibility to submit a package set.
This package set will be added to Rock’s default build configuration, and will
be integrated in the Rock package directory.</p>

<p>The process to submit a package set is:</p>

<ul>
  <li>send the link and description of the package set to <a href="http://www.dfki.de/mailman/cgi-bin/listinfo/rock-users">rock-users mailing
list</a></li>
  <li>wait for a Rock developer to pick up on that</li>
</ul>